gaza's Health Ministry says it's just
hours away from the shutdown of its main
generators at the alifa and Indonesian
hospitals both facilities are treating
those wounded in Israel's attack of the
jabalia refugee camp they say lives that
are at imminent risk include 42 babies
on incubators 62 wounded in need of
urgent care including those who require
artificial ventilation there are also
650 patients with kidney
failure well Ben JL is director of the
Palestine solidarity campaign he joins
us from London good to have you with us
first of all we're seeing more and more
images sadly coming in of mass civilian
casualties in air strikes like the last
two on jabalia refugee camp how is this
impacting solidarity with the
Palestinians in the
West
well I mean it is adding and I think um
people are still processing the images
we saw from jabalia yesterday before we
heard news of what's happened today and
I'm still stuck with the image that many
of your viewers would have seen of the
man searching amongst the
rubble for his three children who were
dead um we already have um a a strong
solidarity movement in the UK that has
mobilized up to half a million people
onto the streets in
demonstrations um they are fueled by um
an immediate desire to see The Killing
end that's translated into a call for a
ceasefire um they recognize as well um
they are unified in their recognition
that the clock did not stop ticking
ticking on October the 7th that if the
killing is is going to stop we
ultimately have to deal with the root
causes which is Israel's system of
military occupation and aparte but they
are also fueled so if we look at the
response in the UK they are fueled by
anger a real growing anger uh at the
response of our political leaders who
still ref refuse to call for a ceasefire
and we had the grotesque spectacle
yesterday of the leader of the labor
party who is like to be our next prime
minister stating that he could not make
a judgment on on whether Israel was
committing war crimes or not because he
would have to wait for the Judgment of
lawyers um but then said he couldn't
even answer the question whether he
thought it was morally wrong because it
wasn't for him to sit and immediately
respond to what he was saying but of
course we all know a few months ago uh
when Russia was bombing Ukraine and
killing civilians he was able to respond
iMed immediately and say this is a war
crime I can see civilians have being
killed it's a war crime so there is a
growing solidarity movement there are
hundreds of thousands of people marching
regularly and there are also other
spontaneous demonstrations of solidarity
including people sitting down in train
stations um echoing the call for ceas by
now and that's fueled as I say by an
anger at the response of our polit
political leaders who are making our
government as it has been for decades
complicit but now complicit in what more
and more Scholars of crimes against
humanity are calling a textbook case of
genocide well how much how how effective
are some of the campaigns that
organizations like yours are launching
particularly on Western leaders when as
you rightly pointed out we're not
hearing the same language that we heard
for example a year ago of Ursula Von
Delan the European commission president
when she said on October the 19th quote
yesterday we saw again Russia's targeted
attacks against civilian infrastructure
and she went on to say quote these are
war crimes we're not seeing that kind of
stance from Western leaders are
we no and I think unfortunately none of
that is new of course your viewers will
know that I mean I I will speak
specifically about the UK successive UK
governments um have been complicit for
many many years in failing to take
action to address Israel's ongoing
violations of international law you know
through military occupation through the
imposition of aparte they've been
complicit in that this is very Stark at
the moment because of the sheer level um
and scale of horrific acts we are seeing
such egregious violations of
international law on a daily basis I was
struck yesterday the head of Unicef said
Gaza has become a graveyard for children
it's a living hell for everyone else
else and our leaders are standing by
effectively saying well that's
acceptable we won't call for a ceasefire
Israel must be allowed to continue so
the the answer to your question what's
the effect of it it's not having an
immediate effect in in changing uh the
policy of government but it is putting
huge pressure on them um again looking
at the labor party which is of course
the opposition party at the moment but
is supposed to be a progressive party we
have seen dozens of counselors so labor
officials at a local level resigning we
have seen senior people in the labor
party criticizing the leadership's
position and speaking out we have to
keep up this pressure and we know that
half a million people marching doesn't
automatically change the position of
political leaders but it does have a
long-term impact in terms of bringing
people into an understanding of the
nature of the oppression of Palestinian
of the Palestinian people and making
them willing to take action my
organization has 80 branches all across
the UK we've already had requests in the
last two weeks to set up another 10 to
15 branches so this is mobilizing people
in unprecedented levels who are outraged
of what they're saying and understand
the simple morality of this that when
they see the indiscriminate bombing of
children they know that this is wrong
and they do not accept the underpinning
argument here that somehow this does not
matter because it's Palestinian children
they do not agree with the defense
minister of Israel who says that the
Palestinians are inhuman animals they
are outraged at what they are saying and
they want action all right we'll leave
it there thanks so much Ben
jaml